welcome my name is Sophia and now I'm
going to talk about 12 years of slave
Solomon Northup as a free African
American man in 1841 working as a
violinist and living with his wife and
two children in Saratoga Springs New
York two white men Brown and Hamilton
offer him short-term employment as a
musician if he will travel with them to
Washington DC however once they have
arrived they drug Northup and deliver
him to a slave pen run by a man named
birch Northup proclaims that he is a
free man
only to be savagely beaten with a wooden
paddle and then a leather strap north of
his ship to New Orleans along with other
captive African Americans he is told by
the others that if he wants to survive
in the south
he must adapt to being a slave and not
to tell anyone he is a free man
a slave trader named Theophilus Freeman
gives Northup the identity of Platt a
runaway slave from Georgia and sells him
to plantation owner William Ford Ford
takes a liking to Northup and gives him
a violin a growing tension between
Northup and plantation carpenter John
thaibeats finally breaks as thaibeats
tries to beat Northup Northup snaps and
beats thaibeats with his hands before
beating him with his own whip Ty beats
and his group tried to hang Northup but
they are not successful Northup is left
on tiptoes with the noose around his
neck for hours before Ford arrives and
cuts Northup down to save Northup slight
Ford sells him to another slave owner
named Edwin Epps in the process Northup
attempts to explain that he is actually
a free man but Ford tells him he is too
afraid and that he cannot help him Epps
unlike Ford is ruthless and sadistic
Northup meets Patsy a favored slave who
can pick over 500 pounds of cotton a day
twice the usual quota Epps regularly
rapes Patsy while his wife abuses and
humiliates her out of jealousy sometime
later caught
worms destroy X's crops unable to work
his fields Epps leases his slaves to a
neighboring plantation for the season
while their Northup gains the favor of
the plantations owner judge turner who
allows him to play the fiddle at a
neighbor's wedding anniversary
celebration and to keep his earnings
when Northup returns 2x he uses the
money to pay a white field hand and
former overseer Armsby
to mail a letter to his friends in new
york Armsby agrees and accepts Northup
saved money but immediately betrays him
2x in the middle of the night
a drunken Epps wakes Northup and
questions him menacingly about the
letter while holding a knife to Northup
stomach Northup is narrowly able to
convince Epps that Armsby is lying and
Epps relents afterwards Northup
mournfully burns the letter to prevent
Epps from finding it some time later
Patsey is caught by Epps going to a
neighboring plantation in order to
acquire soap as mrs. Epps won't let her
have any in retaliation Epps orders
Northup to whit Patsy Patsy is then
whipped brutally by X to the point of
near death after the incident Northup
destroys his violin in a rage Northup
begins working on the construction of a
gazebo with a Canadian labour named
Samuel base base is unsettled by the
brutal way that Epps treats his slaves
and expresses his opposition to slavery
earning Epps with enmity Northup
overhears the conversation and decides
to reveal his kidnapping to base once
again Northup asks for help in getting a
letter to New York
although base is hesitant at first
because of the risk he agrees to send it
one day the local sheriff arrives in a
carriage with two men the sheriff asks
north of a series of questions to
confirm that his answers match the facts
of his life in New York Northup
recognizes the sheriff's companion as
mr. Parker a shopkeeper he knew in
Saratoga Springs Parker has come to free
him and the to embrace though an enraged
EPS furiously protests the circumstances
and tries to prevent Northup from
leaving Northup gives an emotional
farewell to patsy and rides off to his
freedom Northup has returned to his home
and family crying as he walks up the
steps as he walks in he sees his wife
with their fully-grown son and daughter
and her husband who present him with his
grandson and namesake Solomon Northup
Staunton Northup apologizes for his long
absence while his family comforts him
the film's epilogue titles recount
Northup unsuccessful suits against brown
hamilton and birch the 1853 publication
of Northup slave narrative memoirs 12
years a slave describes his role in the
abolitionist movement and the absence of
any information surrounding the details
of his death and burial thank you all
for watching
don't forget to subscribe and hit the
bell notification for more of these
videos
[Music]